--- PAGE 1 ---
1   
 
School  of Computer  Science:  Assessment  Brief  
 
 
 
Module  title  Web  Services  and Web  Data  
Module  code  XJCO 3011  
 
Assignment  title  Coursework  1: Individual  Web  Services  API Develop -
ment Project  
Assignment  type  and 
description  Coursework  – individual  practical  project  with  oral 
examination  
 
 
 
 
Rationale  This coursework challenges you to design, implement, 
and present a fully functional data -driven web API 
with database integration.  It assesses your ability  to 
apply software engineering principles to real -world API 
design, justify design choices, demonstrate curios ity, 
creativity, and independence in software develop ment, 
and present your work effectively in an oral ex amination.  
 
 
Word  limit  and  guid -
ance  Assessment  is based  on a 10-minute  oral examination 
(5 minutes presentation + 5 minutes Q&A) supported  by 
submitted materials through GitHub repository, API  
documentation,  and technical  report  (maximum 5 
pages).  
 
 
 
 
 
Use  of GenAI  in this as-
sessment  GREEN:  AI has an integral  role and should  be 
used  as part  of the assessment.   You can use 
GenAI as a primary tool throughout the assess ment 
process.  You must declare all tools used, pur poses, and 
attach examples of exported conversation logs as  
supplementary material.  Using GenAI for de bugging, 
planning or proof -reading is fully permitted. Higher 
grades will be awarded for creative, high -level use of 
GenAI (e.g., exploring alternatives, reimagining 
cutting -edge solutions).  Non -declared use of G enAI 
constitutes academic misconduct.  

--- PAGE 2 ---
2   
 
 
 
Weighting  30%  of overall  module  mark  
 
Submission  deadline  21 April  2026 (via Minerva).  The maximum permit ted 
extension due to mitigating circumstances is one week.  
Submission  method  Electronic  submission  through  GitHub  and Minerva  
 
Feedback  provision  Oral feedback with mark breakdown and rubric -based 
written  comments  via email  within  2 weeks  of the final 
presentation date  
 
 
 
 
Learning  outcomes  as-
sessed   
• Application  of software  engineering  principles  to 
API design  
• Justification  of design  choices  and stack  selection  
• Demonstration  of curiosity,  creativity,  and indepen -
dence in software development  
• Effective  presentation  of technical  work  in an oral 
examination  
Module  lead  Dr Ammar  Alsalka  (M.A.Alsalka@leeds.ac.uk ) 
Other  Staff  contact  Mr Omar  Choudhry  (O.Choudhry@leeds.ac.uk ) 
Module  co-lead er Dr Guilin Zhao ( G.Zhao @leeds.ac.uk  or  
guilinzhao@ swjtu.edu.cn ) 

--- PAGE 3 ---
3   
 
 
1. Assignment  guidance  
You will develop your API individually.  The assessment encourages 
creativity, good design practice, and reflective learning in the era of  
Generative AI (GenAI). The advent of GenAI has unlocked frontiers 
once deemed unattainable.  Instead of investing significant time and 
effort in mastering low -level programming concepts and techniques, 
computer science students and practitioners can now le verage AI to 
focus on building complex, creative, and advanced solutions.  
Therefore, this coursework is intentionally made open -ended to foster 
independent inquiry and innovation.  While students can still ground  their 
design and implementation in the foundational tools and technol ogy 
stacks introduced in the module, higher grades will be awarded for 
solutions that demonstrate originality, advanced methodologies, and in -
tegration of contemporary technologies. Nove l approaches that extend 
beyond the basic requirements, such as incorporating modern frame -
works, architectural patterns, or emerging standards, will be recognised as  
evidence  of critical  engagement  and technical  sophistication.  
(a) Assessment  Overview  
Your gr ade will be assessed through an Oral Examination supported by  
a comprehensive  review  of your  submitted  materials.  The oral exam will  
last 10 minutes  in total , consisting  of: 
• 5 minutes : individual  presentation  and demonstration  of your  
project.  
• 5 minutes : structured  questions  from  the examiners  about  your 
implementation,  design  decisions,  and supporting  materials.  
The coursework mark is composed of 75% for content , 15% for quality  
of presentation , and 10%  for Q&A  performance . Exam iners will 
review your Git Hub repository (including commit history), API 
documentation, and technical report before, during, and after the oral  
examination.  The final  mark  will be determined  through  examiner 
discretion, taking into account both your oral presentation performance 
and the quality of all submitted materials.  You must be prepared to 
answer questions about any aspect of your submission.  

--- PAGE 4 ---
4   
 
 
(b) Oral  Presentation  Schedule  
Oral presentations will take place during the week commencing 28 
April  2026  through  to 7 May  2026 . Each  student  will be allocated a 
10-minute presentation slot.  
Important  attendance  requirements:  
• You must arrive 10 minutes before your scheduled start 
time and make sure all your devices, program code, and 
presentation material  (e.g. slides, videos, etc.) are ready 
and working as expected.  
• In case  of emergency, you  must  send  an email  notification 
(except where additional considerations apply).  
• Failure to notify by email in case of emergency will result 
in automatic failure of th e oral examination component.  
(c) Deliverable  Requirements  
You must  provide  the following  deliverables:  
(i) Code  Repository  
 
• Public GitHub repository with visible commit history demonstrat ing 
consistent version control.  
• Includes  a clear  README.md  describing  setup  instructions  and project 
overview.  
• Code  must  be runnable  and correspond  to the version  presented 
in the oral exam.  
• Missing  version  control  or README.md  or non-runnable  code  will 
result  in this component  being  graded  as a Fail 
 
(ii) API Documentation  
 
• Generated  or manually  written  documentation  (e.g.  Swagger  UI, 
Postman, Markdown).  
• Clearly describes all available endpoints, parameters, and response 
formats.  

--- PAGE 5 ---
5   
 
• Includes example requests and expected responses (JSON or equiv -
alent1). 
• Documents authentication process and error codes where applica -
ble. 
• Must be referenced in the README.md file as a PDF file (if gener -
ated  as an HTML  file, then  convert  to PDF).  
• Missing  API documentation  will result  in this component  being 
graded as a Fail.  
 
(iii) Technical  Report  
 
• Concise written report outlining key design and architectural choices. 
We want to see your personal choices for the technology stack.  
• Justifies the decision of programming language,  frameworks,  and 
datab ases.  
• Reflects  on challenges,  testing  approach,  and lessons  learned.  
• Includes limitations and potential areas for improvement or future 
development.  
• Contains  a Generative  AI declaration  and thoughtful  analysis  of 
its usage if used.  
• Missing  technical  report  or GenAI  declaration  will result  in this 
component being graded as a Fail.  
 
(iv) Presentation  Slides  
• PowerPoint  presentation  slides  that will be used  to present  your 
work in the oral exam.  
• Presentation slides must adhere to commonly known guidance on 
quality o f good presentations.  See this link for example: 
https://library.leeds.ac.uk/info/1401/academic -skills/130/presentations -oral 
 
 
 
1You are permitted to use other formats provided you justify these in your supporting 
report document.  

--- PAGE 6 ---
6   
 
 
2. Use of GenAI  
This is a Green  Light  Assessment . You may  use GenAI  tools  (e.g. 
Secure Microsoft Copilot) under the following rules:  
• You must  declare  all tools  used,  purposes,  and attach  some  ex-
amples  of exported  conversation  logs as supplementary  material.  
• Using  GenAI  for debugging,  planning  or proof -reading  is fully 
permitted . 
• Non -declared  use of GenAI  constitutes  academic  misconduct . 
The following table shows how different levels of GenAI usage relate to  
grade bands:  
 
 
 
Grade  Band  GenAI  Usage  Level  
 
 
40–49 (Pass)  Generative  AI is employed  in an unsystematic 
and arbitrary manner.  
 
50–59 (Satisfactory)  Low-level  use of AI, e.g.  to aid in writing  or 
debugging  code.  
 
60–69 (Good)  Employs  Generative  AI in a methodologically  
sound  manner.  
 
70–79 (Very  Good)  Medium  level  use of GenAI,  e.g. to understand  
technology  and new  concepts.  
 
80–89 (Excellent)  High  level  use of GenAI  to aid creative  thinking  
and solution  exploration.  
 
90–100 (Outstanding)  Creative  application  of Generative  AI, such  as 
exploring  high -level  alternatives  and reimagin ing 
the design of cutting -edge solutions.  
 

--- PAGE 7 ---
7   
 
 
3. Assessment  tasks  
(a) Minimum  Technical  Requirements  
To achieve  a Pass  (i.e. 40+) , your  API must  at a minimum:  
• implement at least one data model involving all four  elements of 
CRUD  (Create,  Read,  Update  and Delete)  functionality  linked to 
a database.2 You can base your design on a RESTful (Rep -
resentational State Transfer) API. However, you can also use a 
GraphQL -based API if you think this is more suitable for the 
problem, but you must explain the rationale for using GraphQL.  
• includes  at least  four  API endpoints  accessible  via HTTP  requests  
• handle  user  inputs  and return  appropriate  JSON  responses.  You 
are permitted to use other formats, provided you justify these in your 
supporting report document.  
• use correct  status/error  codes,  according  to industry  convention  
• be demonstrable via local execution, web hosting (e.g.  Pytho -
nAnywhere), or a Model Context Protocol (MCP) server.  
You can base your implementation on Django, but you can also use 
other suitable stacks (e.g.  Python  FastAPI,  Node.js Express,  Go Fiber).  
You must justify your technical choices and motivations.  
(b) Example  Project  Ideas  
 
• A book metadata and recommendation API integrating a public 
dataset (e.g.  Goodreads or Google Books) and providing analytic 
endpoints such as genre trends, rating distributions, and person -
alised suggestions.  
• An environmental  and urban  climate  statistics  API that  stores  his-
torical  weather,  air quality,  and temperature  data,  enabling  users 
to query aggregated metrics, anomalies, and city -level trends.  
• A productivity and habit analytics API that tracks tasks, habits, 
time  logs, and  comple tion patterns, offering  endpoints  for streak 
calculations,  productivity  heatmaps,  and behavioural  summaries.  
 
2You are permitted  to use any type  of SQL database,  but you should  not use NoSQL  
databases except with clear reasoning in your supporting report document.  

--- PAGE 8 ---
8   
 
• A public transport reliability and delay analytics API using open UK 
transport datasets, providing CRUD for user -reported inci dents 
and endpoints for route -level re liability scores, delay pat terns, 
and temporal performance summaries.  
• A nutrition and recipe analytics API backed by open food datasets 
(e.g.  USDA  or UK FSA),  supporting  ingredient/recipe  CRUD  and 
computing calories, macronutrients, allergen warnings, and  cost or 
difficulty estimates.  
• A housing market and rental insights API integrating ONS or  Land 
Registry data, offering CRUD for listings and locations, plus 
analytics such as median rent, affordability indices, or regional 
price trends.  
• A cultural events and tourism insights API using public datasets on 
museums, festivals, and heritage sites, enabling CRUD for events 
and providing popularity metrics, seasonal trends, and location -
based recommendations.  
• A sports performance and match statistics API backed by public 
sports datasets (e.g.  football, cricket, or F1), supporting CRUD  for 
teams, players, and matches, alongside analytical endpoints for  
leaderboards,  performance  summaries,  and win probabilities.  
 
(c) Data  Sources  
You are encouraged to use publicly available datasets for your project.  
Below  are some  suggested  platforms  where  you can access  suitable  data:  
 
• Kaggle  (https://www.kaggle.com/datasets ) – Larg e collection  
of datasets across various domains, including books, weather, health, 
and more.  
• data.gov.uk  (https://www.data.gov.uk/ ) – UK government  open 
data  portal  with  datasets  on transport,  health,  education,  and 
public services.  
• OpenWeatherMap   (https://openweathermap.org/api )  –  Weather  
data API that can be used to collect historical and current weather 
information.  
• Google   Dataset   Search  (https://datasetsearch.research.  
google.com/ ) – Search  engine  for publicly  available  datasets.  

--- PAGE 9 ---
9   
 
• UCI Machine Learning Repository (https://archive.ics.  
uci.edu/ ) – Datasets  commonly  used  for machine  learning  and 
data  analysis  projects.  
• NHS  Digital  (https://digital.nhs.uk/data ) – Health  and care 
data from the UK National Health Service.  
 
Ensure that any dataset you use is appropriately licensed for academic use,  
and clearly  cite the source  in your  technical  report.  
(d) Using  AI to Work  with  Datasets  
You are encouraged to leverage Generative AI tools to help you dis -
cover, process, and import datasets into your database.  A recom -
mended workflow includes:  
(i) Dataset Discovery: Use AI to search online for datasets in  
areas you are passionate about or interested in exploring.  Ask AI to 
suggest  relevant  datasets,  data  sources,  or domain -specific  repositories.  
(ii) Download and Explore: Download an interesting dataset and 
examine its structure, format, and contents to underst and what data is 
available.  
(iii) Generate Import Scripts:  Provide a subset of your dataset to 
AI and ask it to help you create a script to import and store the  data in 
your SQL database.  This can significantly accelerate the data 
preparation process.  
This approach  encourages  creative  exploration  while  demonstrating  ef-
fective  use of AI as a productivity  tool.  Remember  to declare  your  use 
of AI tools in your technical report, as outlined in Section 2. 

--- PAGE 10 ---
10   
 
 
4. General  guidance  and study  support  
Detailed information and guidance are available in the module’s learn ing 
resources on Minerva.  If you encounter difficulties or have questions 
about the assignment:  
• Attend module practical lab sessions where teaching staff can p ro-
vide guidance;  
• Post  questions  on the module  discussion  forum  on Minerva;  
• Contact  the module  leader  or teaching  staff  during  office  hours.  

--- PAGE 11 ---
11   
 
 
5. Assessment  criteria  and marking  process  
 
Band  Content  (75%)  Presentation  (15%)  Q&A  (10%)  
 
 
40–49 
(Pass)  • Working  CRUD 
operations with 
the database  
• Basic  API struc -
ture  implemented  
• Minimal  doc-
umentation 
provided  
• Limited  design 
justification  
• server -side code 
not  deployed  on 
an external 
platform.  
• Commit history 
visible but lim ited 
• Generative  AI is 
employed in an 
unsystematic 
and arbitrary 
manner.   
• Presentation deliv -
ered  but lacks  struc -
ture  
• Minimal  use of visu-
als 
• Reading  from  slides  
• Poor time manage -
ment   
• Struggles to an -
swer  basic  ques -
tions  
• Limited under -
standing of im -
plementation  
• Cannot explain 
design choices  
 
 
Continued  on next  page  
 

--- PAGE 12 ---
12   
 
 
 
Band  Content  (75%)  Presentation  (15%)  Q&A  (10%)  
 
 
50–59 
(Satisfact -
ory)  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
60–69 
(Good)  • Complete API 
with  documenta -
tion  
• Basic authentica -
tion present  
• Demonstrates 
understanding  of 
architecture  
• Clear  technical 
report  
• Regular  commit 
history  
• Hosted  on an ex-
ternal  web  server,  
e.g. PythonAny -
where  
• Well -documented 
API with authen -
tication  
• Effective error 
handling  
• Clear  stack 
choice justifica -
tion 
• Evidence of test -
ing approach  
• Consistent ver -
sion control  
• Employs Gen -
erative AI in a 
methodologically 
sound manner.  • Coherent  presenta -
tion structure  
• Some  visual  aids 
used  
• Mostly  descriptive 
content  
• Adequate  time  
management  
• Low -level  use of AI, 
e.g. to aid in  writing 
or debug ging code.  
 
 
 
 
 
• Well -structured 
presentation  
• Good  use of dia-
grams/screenshots  
• Clear  verbal  deliv -
ery 
• Covers  all deliver -
ables  • Answers  basic 
questions 
adequately  
• Can explain 
main features  
• Limited depth  
in responses  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• Answers ques -
tions  confi -
dently  
• Explains design 
decisions  clearly  
• Shows  good 
understanding  
of code  
 
 
Continued  on next  page  
 

--- PAGE 13 ---
13   
 
 
 
Band  Content  (75%)  Presentation  (15%)  Q&A  (10%)  
 
 
70–79 
(Very 
Good)  •  
 
•  Clean,  modular 
code design  
advanced  fea-
tures,  e.g. MCP - •  
 
•  Professional  presen -
tation  
Effective  use of vi-
suals/demos  •  
 
 
•  Provides de -
tailed, technical 
answers  
Discusses  trade - 
  
•  compatible.  
Comprehensive 
documentation  •  
 
•  Engaging  delivery 
style  
Excellent timing   
 
•  offs and alterna -
tives  
Shows  deep  
• Strong  version -
control  discipline  
• Thorough  testing 
demonstrated  
• Professional 
deployment  
• medium  level  use 
of GenAI, e.g. to 
understand tech -
nology  and new 
concepts.  code  under - 
standing  
 
 
Continued  on next  page  
 

--- PAGE 14 ---
14   
 
 
 
Band  Content  (75%)  Presentation  (15%)  Q&A  (10%)  
 
 
80–89 
(Excel -
lent)  • Exemplary code 
quality  and archi -
tecture  
• Advanced secu -
rity implementa -
tion 
• Comprehensive 
testing suite  
• Creative data de -
sign 
• Excellent  docu -
mentation  
• high  level  use of 
GenAI to aid 
creative thinking 
and solution 
exploration.  • Highly  professional 
delivery  
• Compelling  visual 
aids 
• Confident  and artic -
ulate  
• Demonstrates 
expertise  • Provides  in- 
sightful  re-
sponses  
• Discusses  ad-
vanced  concepts  
• Demonstrates 
independent 
thinking  
 
 
Continued  on next  page  
 

--- PAGE 15 ---
15   
 
 
 
Band  Content  (75%)  Presentation  (15%)  Q&A  (10%)  
 
 
90–100 
(Outstand -
ing) • Exceptional orig -
inality and inno -
vation  
• Novel data inte -
gration or fea -
tures  
• Publication -
quality  documen -
tation  
• Demonstrates 
genuine  research 
curiosity  
• Creative  ap- 
plication  of 
Generative AI, 
such as explor ing 
high -level 
alternatives and 
reimagining the 
design  of cutting -
edge solutions  • Exceptional  presen -
tation quality  
• Outstanding  visual 
communication  
• Inspirational  deliv -
ery 
• Professional -grade 
polish  • Provides 
expert -level 
analysis  
• Discusses 
cutting -edge 
appro aches  
• Shows  excep -
tional mastery  
 
 
 
Important  Notes:  
• Presentations that are overly text -heavy or read verbatim from slides 
will reduce your presentation skills score.  
• Students are expected to use visual elements such as screenshots, dia -
grams, or recorded demos.  
• Your PowerPoint presentation should include dedicated sections cov -
ering: version control practices, API documentation, technical report 
highlights, and all del iverables.  
• During the examination, examiners will navigate through your GitHub 
repository, review your commit history, examine your API documen -
tation, and assess your technical report while asking questions.  
• After your oral presentation, you will receive  detailed feedback via 
email.  We aim to provide  feedback  by email  within  2 weeks  of the fi- 

--- PAGE 16 ---
16   
 
 
nal presentation date. This timeframe allows examiners to thoroughly 
review all submitted materials, apply appropriate discretion in mark ing, 
and ensure that the final grade accurately reflects both your oral 
presentation  performance  and the quality  of your  complete  submission.  

--- PAGE 17 ---
17   
 
 
6. Presentation  and referencing  
Your  report  and oral presentation  must:  
 
• Use clear  English  and professional  communication.  
• Be logically  structured  with  labelled  sections.  
• Include  diagrams  where  appropriate.  
• Reference  any libraries,  tutorials,  or datasets  used.  
The quality of written English will be assessed in this work.  As a minimum, 
you must ensure:  
 
• Paragraphs  are used  
• There are links between and within paragraphs although these may be 
ineffective at times  
• There  are (at least)  attempts  at referencing  
• Word  choice  and grammar  do not seriously  undermine  the meaning 
and comprehensibility of the argument  
• Word  choice  and grammar  are generally  appropriate  to an academic 
text 
 
These are pass/fail criteria.  So irrespective of marks awarded elsewhere,  if 
you do not meet these criteria you will fail overall.  

--- PAGE 18 ---
18   
 
 
7. Submission  requirements  
(a) What  to Submit  via Minerva  
 
• Technical  Report  (PDF)  containing:  
– Link  to your  public  GitHub  repository  
– Link  to your  API documentation  (accessible  through  the GitHub 
repository)  
– Link to your presentation slides, and other visuals (hosted on any  
platform, e.g., Google Drive, OneDrive, etc.)  
– All required  sections  as outlined  in the Pass/Fail  Components  
– GenAI  declaration,  analysis,  and conversation  logs as an appendix  
• Presentation  Slides  (PPTX)  including  dedicated  sections  on: 
– Version  control  practices  and commit  history  
– API documentation  overview  
– Technical  report  highlights  
– All deliverables  (code  repository,  API docs,  technical  report)  
 
(b) GitHub  Repository  Requirements  
Your  GitHub  repository  must  contain:  
 
• Versioned  source  code  with  clear  commit  history  
• README.md  file with  setup  instructions  and project  overview  
• API documentation  PDF 
• All code  must  be runnable  and correspond  to the version  presented  in 
the oral exam  
 
(c) Late  Submissions  
 
• Late  submissions  without  approved  mitigation  incur  a 5% penalty  
per day . 
• Maximum  extension  period  for mitigating  circumstances  is 1 
week.  

--- PAGE 19 ---
19   
 
 
8. Academic  misconduct  and  plagiarism  
All work must comply with the University of Leeds standards on academic 
integrity.  You are expected to distinguish your own work from others’ and 
correctly acknowledge the use of AI tools.  
 
• Leeds  students  are part of an academic  community  that shares  ideas 
and develops new ones.  
• You need to learn how to work with others, how to interpret and present  
other people’s ideas, and how to produce your own independent aca demic 
work.  It is essential that you can distinguish between other  people’s work 
and your own, and correctly acknowledge other people’s work.  
• All students new to the University are expected  to complete an online 
Academic Integrity tutorial and test, and all Leeds students should 
ensure that they are aware of the principles of Academic integrity.  
• When  you submit  work  for assessment  it is expected  that  it will meet 
the University’s academic in tegrity standards.  
• If you do not understand what these standards are, or how they apply 
to your work, then please ask the module teaching staff for further 
guidance.  
 
By submitting this assignment you are confirming that the work  is 
a true  expression  of your  own  work  and  ideas  and  that  you  have 
given  credit  to others  where  their  work  has contributed  to yours.  

--- PAGE 20 ---
20   
 
 
9. Assessment/marking  criteria  grid  
 
 
 
Assessment Criteria  Maximum 
Mark  Mark 
Achieved  Feedback  
 
 
Content  (75%)  
API Functionality & Implementa - 25 
tion  
Code  Quality  & Architecture  20 
Documentation (API & Technical  12 
Report)  
Version  Control  & Deployment  6 
Testing  & Error  Handling  6 
Creativity  & Level  of GenAI  us- 6 
age 
 
Presentation  Skills  (15%)  
 
Structure  & Clarity   5 
Visual  Aids  & Delivery   5 
Time  Management   5 
Q&A  Performance  (10%)  
Depth  of Understanding    
 
4 
Ability  to Explain  Design  Deci - 3 
sions  
Response  to Technical  Questions  3 
 
Total  Mark  100  
 

